[Music]
you
so in the last lecture we looked at some
of the basic processes of cognitive
psychology we looked at what cognitive
psychology is composed of we looked at
the schools which led to the development
of cognitive psychology is a field we
look at the subject matter of cognitive
psychology in terms of mental
representations what are mental
representations what do they represent
how do they combine together to find
knowledge and how mental representations
are manipulated the way they can be
expressed the way they can be understood
in this lecture we look at why brain is
to be brought into the idea of cognitive
psychology up till now we have been
looking at mental processes and we'll be
looking at mental representations and
the functions of mental representations
we're looking at how mental
representations function but the idea of
cognitive psychology in terms of what
behavior is said or in terms of what
cognitive is said proposed that mental
representations explain functions the
process of how they combine together
explained functions of a of how mental
activities take place is not enough so
at the inception of cognitive psychology
it was all about the functional aspect
of how mental representations make up
mental activity and mental knowledge now
one of the core challenges one of the
main challenges of cognitive psychology
is to understand what happens in the
mind and how does the mind does what it
does the conception of the mind have
been differently put by different people
philosophers have given one way of mark
mind is psychologists have understood
mine in more in terms of consciousness
understanding consciousness and go
through the cognitive revolution
training of the mind was put down to or
brought down to the understanding of
mental representations understanding
mental processes mentally activities and
so on and so forth up till now till the
cognitive revolution the study of mental
processes descend to study of mental
activity the study of cognition which is
basically the study of mental activities
was in terms of functions but the mind
cannot work on its own and so it it's
the the idea of mind and brain as a
computer hardware and software
introduces first the first time brain as
that system on which the mind works and
so one of the most interesting fact that
has been bought or that has been thought
of as my cognitive psychologists is
introduction of the brain in the whole
idea of study of mental processes of how
mental events takes place the question
is why do we study the brain what help
will we get looking at the brain it is
composed of different neurons neuronal
grooves and these neuronal groups have
biological structure and so at the sight
of it it doesn't appeal or it doesn't
give us much information about mental
processes or the functioning of the mind
so why should we actually look at the
brain looking at the brain will help us
identify those processes and the correct
combination of processes that are
required to complete a task what does
that mean what it would mean is that
since the brain leads to the mind the
working of the mind the process of the
mind will have a direct impact or would
directly project to the brain and so
changes in brain structure changes in
brain activity can then be correlated to
the
of the mind think of it in this way and
this is a very blow not example suppose
a region a of the brain activates when a
certain mental processes takes place and
it doesn't activate it doesn't show
activity when a certain be mental
process takes place then now we have an
observable a quantifiable fact or a
quantifiable system on which we can look
at changes because these brain
activities the the increase and decrease
of brain activities will signal whether
process a is working or whether process
B is working and so one of the reasons
of including the brain or bringing up
the brain into the whole idea of study
of cognitive psychology is to identify
because brain helps us in identifying
what mental processes are taking place
if we are able to form correlations
between mental activity and brain
activity but then there is a catch to it
what is the catch different information
processes they lead to the same kind of
mental experience what I am trying to
tell you here think of emotions now
there is a correlation between a brain
region which is the amygdala and the
kind of emotion that people have and so
if I'm looking at unhappy emotion or if
I am looking at positive emotion what
will happen is that most on most have
positive emotions the same or nearly
same brain regions will actually
activate or show activity so how do I go
ahead and pinpoint those brain networks
which lead to the happiness or sadness
factor also there is no way to tell us
how does the brain reduce or give labels
to these emotions whether this is
excited this is happy and this activity
leads to this kind of emotional feeling
so then the different sort of
information processes can produce
similar results or continue similar kind
of at in in outputs is one of the basic
problems by including of including the
brain so one of the problems is that
also there is a problem which is called
the structure process trade-off why does
it mean this is the same thing that I
was trying to explain you a little while
ago what is the structure process
trade-off I try to explain this to you
in a very easy way
Sall Starnberg Sternberg sorry was
trying to identify how people search
mentally what is the process people use
for doing mental search and for that he
gave people students volunteers
experiments so in the first
conceptualization what Steinbach was
trying to do was trying to find out how
information is accessed from
memory any conceptualized so an
experiment which he gave to volunteers
the experiment was like this certain
numbers were given to people for example
numbers 1 3 5 7 and 9 and later on these
people once these numbers were shown to
them later on these numbers were shown
to them one by one and they were asked
to tell with confidence whether these
numbers were in the list or not so it's
like a list recognition so what happens
in this experiment is this list of
number will given to people to remember
to learn and once the learning was over
one by one these numbers are presented
and they were asked to decide they were
asked to recognize whether each of these
numbers represent in the list or not
what he conceptualized is that this kind
of list excess memory excess happens
through serial search and why did he why
did he propose that he found out that as
the list increases the verification time
also increases so list increases the
length of the list increases the
verification time also increases what he
found out from his studies well that
information excess from memory was in a
serial way so what happens is that when
once you saw this list to people people
formed a mental image of this and then
later on when you show one of these
members of the list and ask them to
verify from their mental image or from
the mental representation whether this
is present or not we what people tend to
do is match this with this if the match
of this with this results in a yes
response the search is terminated if it
is not you get a negative response here
and so the search goes to the next item
whether this and these are similar it is
not so search goes to the third item
not match again not match again not
match the list returns to the first item
verifies it again and then gives an
output saying that it was not present in
the list and this is a serial search so
what happens is one item at the same
time list
2 is matched to the list and that gives
this kind of a serial search system and
so obviously as the number of items will
increase the verification time will
increase because this serial searches
have to be more in number this was what
Saul Steinberg proposed and this is how
what he said is the reason for accessing
or how information is system in memory
but later on people like Townsend gave a
different conceptualization of
information accessing from memory
what did Townsend say Townsend said that
the same conceptualization that I have
the same problem can add that I have can
be thought of as balls in a plate and so
now I have one three seven four and nine
and instead of a serial search what
really happens is information is
searched through parallel processes
information access from memory is done
through parallel processes not if that
is true if parallel processes occur in
the memory then adding new items into
this list for example two and eight
should not increase the time of
verification as list length increases
this is not what was found
what Townsend found that as the number
of balls the number of item increases
the time of verification also increases
so how do I confer it for a serial
search it was accounted in terms of the
fact that more number of processes are
there and more structure is in so as the
number of processes increases or sorry
the number of searches increases the
time will increase but in this case when
I have parallel searches here the same
structure in the same structure the
number of items are there but still the
time of verification increases how do I
confer this the counting further this is
done in terms of the number of processes
that take place what happens is in
serial search
although the process of verification is
single but the structure that stores
this information is a bigger structure
and so what happens is although the
process is a single process since the
structure is more or there is a bigger
structure which throws this information
the time of verification will increase
because as I add up more items into it
more structure is required on the other
hand parallel search although the
structure is same but the number of
processes that are there the number of
comparisons that have to be done the
number of processes takes up for the or
icons for the more time what will happen
is since there are let's let's assume
that there are four process processes
which run in parallel what will happen
is these four processes will have to do
multiple evaluations and these multiple
evaluations although this is much faster
but these multiple evaluations are the
reason for the increase in verification
time and so the inclusion of the brain
the inclusion of the idea of the brain
gives us a chance to identify what is
the reason for the mental activity or
what is the reason how this mental
activity is taking place
another interesting thing is the
adequacy theory is the requirement of
adequacy what does it say the inclusion
of the brain into the understanding of
mental processing or mental processes
gives us this chance to understand what
necessary or what adequate processes or
what requirements are there for certain
mental process to take place what does
this mean it means that if four
different processes or if four different
answers of a particular way a particular
process through which a mental
experiences fell is being proposed given
the structural constraint of the brain
which of them will be the most correct
what do I mean by this in the first part
I have explained that multiple processes
will give the same result but how do I
go ahead and look at which of this is
the most optimal or which of this is the
most optimal theory the best theories or
best threat of theories because there
will be several theories there will be
several reasons of how the mental
process appeared and so what the
adequacy Clause will tell us is that
given the constraints of the brain even
the constraints of what the brain has or
what structures of the brain are which
of the theory explains the processing or
the answer to a mental process or the
output to a mental process and so
education law says that when inclusion
of the brain will help us in pinpointing
which theory works in which theory
doesn't and what should be done for
theories or what changes could be done
in a theory to adjust it so that it
explains a mental mental phenomena now
there are certain paradigms to the study
of cognitive psychology first of all let
us understand what a paradigm is it's a
body of knowledge
structured according to what is
proponents consider important and what
they do not so it's basically what
should be the basic idea behind
cognitive psychology or what what is the
basic matter behind cognitive psychology
and so this these paradigms are
assumptions which are made by
investigators appropriate types of
research methods because these paradigms
then when I use a particular paradigm
when I use a particular approach to
study cognitive psychology it will not
only give leaders to having a set of
assumptions which vary across paradigms
but it also gave us different methods of
research of the same different processes
or the same mental process it will also
give new questions in the field so the
same processes same mental process or
same mental activities if it is studied
by different paradigms if it is studied
by different approaches not only will it
give us different types of research
methods of having same process but it
would also give us new questions and
also new analog is to it or new similar
problems to it of how the solutions can
be generated and so in cognitive
psychology there are four basic paradigm
that I wish to make you aware of here
the first paradigm is called the
information processing approach and so
this approach started with the cognitive
revolution the part of this approach
this approach comes from the structure
list and what this approach says is that
cognition is basically information
passing through a system so there are
several systems out there Seraph several
process systems in in the mind and these
process systems takes in information
from a previous process a processing
system and passes processes it in
certain way and passes it along to the
next system and so information
processing approach says that quality
psychology the subject matter of
sovereignty psychology should be how how
these systems process information the
basic information processing approach is
built in this way it says that any
information which comes out or which
people encounter from the environment is
first detected so this is the
environment
and this environment provides certain
signals or certain kind of information
and this information is detected by the
mind or by the brain using a process
called attention this attention then
separates the different formats of
information which are passed on from the
environment so the information which is
passed on from the environment could be
in visual medium it could be an auditory
medium or it could mean olfactory medium
or the other two senses which is haptic
or the taste gustatory once these
different formats or this different
types of information is detected by the
human system through process of
attention it is passed on to something
called a short-term memory and what is
short-term memory it's a system or it's
a place where information which is taken
in through a process of perception using
attention is thrown here or is put here
for storage now this storage system is a
temporary storage and so if people do
not rehearse this information do not go
ahead and repeat this information it is
lost here through forgetting if it is
rehearsed it goes back to something
called long-term memory also information
which is coming out from the environment
is first recognized through perception
so perception has certain filters and
these filters are three these basic
modules will recognize different
information which is coming from the
environment I am talking about here the
content so based on the content the
information is stored in short-term
memory from the short-term memory it is
rehearsed it goes to long-term memory
once the information comes into
long-term memory this is basically
categorized into already so existing
information systems or information pages
in the long-term memory so mostly
long-term memory has a very categorical
structure
since long-term memory has a lot of
information to into it so what it does
is it categorizes information into
different categories
what are these categories these
categories are generally formed through
something called schema if it's episodic
knowledge or it if it is semantic
knowledge this categorization is done
through something called hierarchical
tree structure what you need to
understand here is that this long-term
memory takes in information from
short-term memory and it binds this
information which is coming from
short-term memory into already existing
long-term memory information for example
the next time you see an apple you do
not need to learn that this is an apple
what happens is when an apple is
presented to you this Apple is perceived
by your perceptual system the perceptual
system identifies a scale color shape
and these kind of informations texture
passes on to short-term memory the
short-term memory takes this information
ask the long-term memory in terms of
given the fact that this is the format
and this is the meaning or this is the
kind of information that is coming from
this structure or this mental
representation what could could be the
long-term memory then compares this
information and tells you that this is
an apple or if tomorrow
a black Apple comes in now when I taste
it when I see it it looks like an apple
but the possibility of black Apple is
not there so what the brain will do is
take this black colored Apple compare it
with features which are existing in in
the long-term memory and so since the
black Apple has most of the features
which is similar to any other Apple only
the color is different so what will
happen is this black Apple now gets
stored up or gets included into the
category of Apple
which are already stored in long-term
memory with one pointer to it or with
one exception to it saying that this is
a black color Apple because most apples
are green and red in color so this is a
unique feature which says that it is
black in color
so this is what the information
processing approach says it says that
any information comes in or it passes
through certain stages and these stages
define how an information or mental
mental activity defines how an
information path is processed through
this system now the information
processing approach tells us about the
system's the processes and the goals
what is the systems here the various
systems which help in the processing of
information are the sensory memory here
the short-term memory here
the long-term memory here what are the
processes which help us in in
understanding this mental experience or
in sending metal activity our processes
recognition rehearsal recording
reorganization manipulation
categorization and so on and so forth
and what are the goals of it the goal is
the response the goal is the
understanding so in the Apple example
the processes which help us and
understanding the Apple is the
short-term memory the long-term memory
the perceptual systems those are the
processes what are the sorry those are
the structures those are the systems the
processes are the process of encoding
the process of recognition the process
of rehearsal the process of response
manipulation the process of
identification recognition these are the
process through which you are into Phi
this Apple and the response the output
is storage of a new kind of Apple the
response output is the information the
knowledge that a black apple also exists
this is the goal though the goal is to
understand that
that can only be L can also be black is
achieved through a system of processes
the second paradigm which has been used
or which is popular in cognitive
psychology is connectivism what is
connectivism now collectivism is also
known as parallel distributed processing
model and what it says is that there are
several small units which are connected
together and these connections lead to
the formation of mental experience in
the information processing approach we
saw certain systems interacting with
certain processes to give a particular
kind of a goal in connectionism what
happens is there are several small units
and these small units connect to each
other through circle connect connections
and these connections later on lead to
the formation of mental experience how
does this connect to vision works the
basic fundamental premise of this
connectionism theory is that individual
neurons in the brain they do not
transmit large amounts of symbolic
information but instead they compute or
they come up with the goal by being
appropriately connected to large number
of situational units so what is the
meaning of this it means that there are
specialized systems and these
specialized systems are connected to
each other and these connections lead to
the idea of mental process for example
let's
understand how this particular sentence
Robin is a bird the mental experience to
this is explained by connectionism look
at Robin this is our name it's a kind of
bird and so if you look at this side of
it it falls from the category of birds
so there are Robin a canary sunfish
Salman all these are birds and these
fall under the living things living
things have are further divided into
plants and animal then into trees and
flowers bird fish and so on and so forth
so basically on this side you have a
system of connections through which in
which you have categorization in terms
of living nonliving birds animals and so
on and so forth and so Robin forms Robin
goes here the name Robin goes here is or
ASA is basically a connector which
defines what is the relation of Robin to
the word bird and once Robin which is a
bird is connected to three to this
connection of SR we can then say that if
the mental experience of Robin is a bird
can then conclude - or can give then can
give us the idea that since Robin is a
bird it should have wings it should be
able to fly why because the idea that
bird falls under the category of living
things and living things certain
features of living things are there and
these live certain features should be
present on any member of living things
so bird is a member of living things and
so everything that is there in the
living thing should be present in bird
so Robin Hood Robin which is basically a
bird should be leaving should be
locomoting should be doing daily
activities and certain features of the
bird should also be present in them the
basic idea and connection is
is that it is not big processes it is
not big systems and process a connection
between big processes and systems which
leads to the formation of mental
activity or mental experience but there
are several connections between several
networks which are there there as there
is a network of what a bird looks like
there is a network of what if there is a
bird what is the basic feature of the
word and so on and so forth and this is
how connections are so small units small
amount of units or small units combined
together to give us the mental
experience now these units which combine
with each other to give us the kind of
experience that trees wear that we get
when we talk about robbing is a bird it
they have certain weights and so weight
wise combination will tell us what
features should Robin have now we'll
discuss connectionism the idea of
connectionism in detail in the chapter
of memory where we look into what is
semantic memory and what is the parallel
distributed model there and how symbolic
the hierarchy structure of symbolic
memory is and those things there but the
basic difference between connectionism
and information processing approaches in
information processing approach there is
one system there is a set of there is a
set of system and set of processes which
leads to the goal but whereas in
connectionism several units several
independent units they combined together
to give us the mental experience the
third approach to studying of cognitive
psychology is called the evolutionary
approach now what this approach does it
says that the study of mental processes
through the ways in which the IP model
the information processing model and
connectivism connectivist models look at
they basically don't count for emotional
features or aversion Airi approaches
evolutionary inputs to our understanding
of community psychology so what they say
is cognitive psych or subjective matter
of cognitive psychology is not
how mental processes are studying off
mental process how mental process a
process but there are certain
specialized competence which comes
through evolutionary input for example
basic cognitive abilities like language
and three-dimensional perception of
perception of depth are present in very
small children and they don't need some
kind of mental experience for them to
develop that and so what evolutionary
approach says that human beings they
have very specialized ideas of
completeness produced by our
evolutionary heritage evolution has a
role to play in cognitive psychology so
the subject matter of cognitive
psychology the view the way of looking
at what cognitive psychology should
study should not only be the study of
mental processes and thoughts it should
also be how evolution has made us think
in certain ways or behave in certain
ways what they say the unitary
approaches say is that the human mind is
basically a biological system that has
evolved over generations and the
development of the human mind has come
through a process of national selection
so certain features or certain aspects
certain working of the human mind or the
human brain is inbuilt is evolutionary
in nature and nature has given us this
kind of system to process information so
basically then the evolutionary approach
will use evolutionary as one of the
reason of mental experience and one of
the basic views or one of the basic ways
of looking at how mental experiences are
processed and similar to that is the
last approach which is called the
ecological approach the ecological
approach goes ahead and says that mental
experiences or cognition does not occur
in isolation all cognitive activities
take place in certain context and so
contexts are very important in studying
career cognition so just studying the
mental processes or what is going in the
brain what is going on in the mind how
the brain or what the brain does or what
mental experiences are what kind of
processes and systems make up certain
kind of certain kind of mental mental
experience should not be the only way of
looking at cognition of how cognition
happens but one way of looking at
cognition or one viewpoint of looking at
cognition is also in terms of the
ecology or the culture in which people
live because culture has only a large
role to play of how information is
processed certain cultures do not allow
information probe to be processed in
certain ways certain cultures allow
information to be certain process in
certain ways and that leads to the
different kind of information processing
or different kind of thinking
think of the individualistic and the
cult and the collectivist culture the
kind of culture that the Westerners have
individualistic in nature and the kind
of culture that we have here the Asian
countries have is more collectivist
nature and so the way the mental
processes the cognition of people who
live in the West are entirely different
from the way we live in our country
because we have a collectivist culture
the reason is that from right on right
very beginning they the Westerners are
taught to be individualistic taught to
be alone taught to be doing things on
their own and so they process
information in an entirely different way
whereas the
as Asians since we live in a
collectivist culture what really happens
is the way we perceive information is
always in terms of how the whole society
will look into it
so basically then the ecological
approach says is that all correct
cognitive activities are shaped by the
culture and context in which they occur
and so this brings an end to the base
the first section of where we looked at
the history of cognitive psychology the
subject matter of cognitive psychology
the various paradigms of cognitive
psychology of what it should be the what
is the subject matter what is the
content what kind of things are studied
into it what kind of processes are there
and what is the input-output kind of a
system this is the basic introduction to
the history of cognitive psychology in
upcoming lecture what we look into is
how do we study cognition now as I said
cognition is the mental process
processing of mental activities or
mental representations so how do we
study this processing how do we study
this cognition in action is what we'll
do in next lecture and from there on
will slowly move on to other cognitive
processes or basic cognitive processes
such as perception things like attention
things like memory this isn't making and
so on so forth thank you
[Music]
you